OCPBUGS-15609: docs - add AWS CLI commands for STS instructions (#97)
openshift/aws-load-balancer-operator: docs/install.md

This documents any required information either during installation or
post installation to ensure the operator can function correctly.

- [STS Clusters](#sts-clusters)
    - [Post operator installation](#post-operator-installation)
        - [Use CredentialsRequest created by the operator](#use-credentialsrequest-created-by-the-operator)
        - [Use predefined secret](#use-predefined-secret)
            - [Option 1. Using ccoctl](#option-1-using-ccoctl)
            - [Option 2. Using AWS CLI](#option-2-using-aws-cli)

## STS Clusters
In an STS Cluster, `CredentialsRequest`s are not automatically provisioned by
the **cloud-credential-operator** and the manual intervention done by the
cluster-admin is required. IAM role and policies as well as the credentials secret need to be provisioned manually for the further consumption by the pods.

Normally, the **aws-load-balancer-operator** relies on the **cloud-credential-operator**

> to provision the secret for the operated controller using `CredentialsRequest`. However in an STS cluster this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to provision the secret for the operated controller using `CredentialsRequest`. However,  in an STS cluster this
```

secret needs to be provisioned manually. The **aws-load-balancer-operator** will wait until the required
secret is created and available before spawning the **aws-load-balancer-controller** pod.

> ### Post operator installation

Reviewer: Just add a little intro. Something like this, but tweak to make it correct.
```suggestion
### Post operator installation

There are three ways to manually create the required `CredentialsRequest`s.  You can use the `ccoctl` binary on ____, but not on MacOS.  Use the `ccoctl` binary to to use the `CredentialsRequest` created by the operator, or use a predefined Secret.  Use the AWS CLI to create a predefined Secret if you prefer not to use `ccoctl`, or are running the process on MacOS.
```

Author: An intro is added.

This documents any required information either during installation or
post installation to ensure the operator can function correctly.

- [STS Clusters](#sts-clusters)
    - [Post operator installation](#post-operator-installation)
        - [Use CredentialsRequest created by the operator](#use-credentialsrequest-created-by-the-operator)
        - [Use predefined secret](#use-predefined-secret)
            - [Option 1. Using ccoctl](#option-1-using-ccoctl)
            - [Option 2. Using AWS CLI](#option-2-using-aws-cli)

## STS Clusters

> In an STS cluster, **cloud-credential-operator** do not automatically provision secrets for `CredentialsRequest`s
> and the manual intervention done by the cluster-admin is required.
> IAM role and policies as well as the credentials secret need to be provisioned manually for the further consumption by the pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an STS cluster,  the **cloud-credential-operator** does not automatically provision secrets for `CredentialsRequest`s, 
so the cluster-admin must provision them manually.
IAM role and policies must also be provisioned manually.
```

Normally, the **aws-load-balancer-operator** relies on the **cloud-credential-operator**
to provision the secret for the operated controller using `CredentialsRequest`. However, in an STS cluster this
secret needs to be provisioned manually. The **aws-load-balancer-operator** will wait until the required
secret is created and available before spawning the **aws-load-balancer-controller** pod.

### Post operator installation

There are three ways to manually create the required IAM resources:
- Using a `CredentialsRequest` generated by the operator for an existing `AWSLoadBalancerController`.
- Using a pre-defined `CredentialsRequest` from this repository for an `AWSLoadBalancerController` that has not yet been created.

> - Employing AWS CLI commands for an `AWSLoadBalancerController` that has not yet been created.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what happened here, but this doesn't match the titles of the three ways you listed below, which are:

1. Use CredentialsRequest created by the operator
2. Use a Predefined Secret and ccoctl
3. Use a Predefined Secret  and the AWS CLI

Author: I tried to make it better phrased to match the titles.
My idea was to keep it focused on the functional aspect - creation of the IAM resources making the choice of the concrete client (`ccoctl` or `aws`) a technical detail to be described down the document.

For handling `CredentialsRequests`, the cloud credential operator utility, [ccoctl](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.html#cco-ccoctl-configuring_cco-mode-sts), can be utilized.

> If you prefer not to use `ccoctl` or are operating on a system not supported by it, the AWS CLI can be an alternative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer not to use `ccoctl`, or your system doesn't support it, the AWS CLI can be an alternative.
```

> The generated credentials secret can either be awaited by the controller pod already or can be configured in the credentials field of the AWSLoadBalancerController prior to creating the controller.

Reviewer: It's not clear what "awaited b the controller pod already" means here.

Author: Rephrased to

> The controller pod will wait for the generated credentials secret if `AWSLoadBalancerController` already exists or it can be configured in the `credentials` field of `AWSLoadBalancerController` before its creation.

    aws-load-balancer-operator-controller-manager-b55ff68cc-85jzg   2/2     Running   0          3h26m
    ```

> #### Use predefined secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Use a Predefined Secret
```

> In case the provisioning of the credentials secret should not be done by the **cloud-credential-operator**, the secret can to be explicitly referenced in `AWSLoadBalancerController` CR, see [credentials.name field description](./tutorial.md#credentialsname).
> The credentials secret needs to reference a role with all the policies needed by the controller. There are multiple options of how to create the credentials secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the provisioning of the credentials secret cannot be done by the **cloud-credential-operator**, e.g. on the MacOS.   Instead, the secret can be explicitly referenced in the `AWSLoadBalancerController` CR, see [credentials.name field description](./tutorial.md#credentialsname).
The credentials secret needs to reference a role with all the policies needed by the controller. 

There are two options for creating the credentials secret.  Use Option 1 with `ccoctl`, or Option 2 with the AWS CLI.
```

Author: Applied with some edits.

    aws-load-balancer-operator-controller-manager-b55ff68cc-85jzg   2/2     Running   0          3h26m
    ```

#### Use a Predefined Secret
In some cases, the provisioning of the credentials secret cannot be done by the **cloud-credential-operator**, e.g. ROSA user clusters are forbidden to create `CredentialsRequest`.
Instead, the secret can be explicitly referenced in the `AWSLoadBalancerController` CR, see [credentials.name field description](./tutorial.md#credentialsname).
The credentials secret needs to reference a role with all the policies needed by the controller.
There are two options for creating the credentials secret.  Use Option 1 with `ccoctl`, or Option 2 with the AWS CLI.

##### Option 1. Using `ccoctl`
The dedicated controller's `CredentialsRequest` is maintained in [hack/controller](../hack/controller/) directory of this repository.

> Its contents are identical to the ones requested by **aws-load-balancer-operator** from the **cloud-credential-operator**.

Reviewer: You need to add the ccoctl step here too.

1. Extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary as described in [Configuring the Cloud Credential Operator utility](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.html#cco-ccoctl-configuring_cco-mode-sts).

Author: Done.

    role_arn = arn:aws:iam::999999999999:role/aws-load-balancer-operator-aws-load-balancer-controller
    web_identity_token_file = /var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token
    ```

> ##### Option 2. Using AWS CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Option 2. Using the AWS CLI
```

1. Generate a trusted policy file using your identity provider (e.g. OpenID Connect):
    ```bash
    IDP="<my-oidc-provider-name>"
    IDP_ARN="arn:aws:iam::<my-aws-account>:oidc-provider/${IDP}"
    cat <<EOF > albo-controller-trusted-policy.json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "Federated": "${IDP_ARN}"
                },
                "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "${IDP}:sub": "system:serviceaccount:aws-load-balancer-operator:aws-load-balancer-controller-cluster"
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    EOF
    ```

> 2. Create the role with the generated trusted policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create and verify the role with the generated trusted policy:
```

    ```bash
    aws iam create-role --role-name albo-controller --assume-role-policy-document file://albo-controller-trusted-policy.json
    CONTROLLER_ROLE_ARN=$(aws iam get-role --role-name albo-controller | \grep '^ROLE' | \grep -Po 'arn:aws:iam[0-9a-z/:\-_]+')

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo $CONTROLLER_ROLE_ARN
    ```
```

3. Attach the controller's permission policy to the role:
    ```bash
    curl -o albo-controller-permission-policy.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/aws-load-balancer-operator/main/assets/iam-policy.json
    aws iam put-role-policy --role-name albo-controller --policy-name perms-policy-albo-controller --policy-document file://albo-controller-permission-policy.json
    ```

4. Generate the operator's aws credentials:
    ```bash
    cat <<EOF > albo-controller-aws-credentials.cfg
    [default]
    sts_regional_endpoints = regional
    role_arn = ${CONTROLLER_ROLE_ARN}
    web_identity_token_file = /var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token
    EOF
    ```

>     **Note**: mind the format of the credentials file, examples can be found in [OCP documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.html#sts-mode-about_cco-mode-sts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**: verify the format of the credentials file. Examples can be found in [OCP documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.html#sts-mode-about_cco-mode-sts).
```
